---
rule: "8021"
title: "Costs"
title_number: "VIII"
title_name: "Appeal to a District Court or a Bankruptcy Appellate Panel"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2024"
has_deadlines: true
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/rules-policies/current-rules-practice-procedure/federal-rules-bankruptcy-procedure"
source_pdf_page: 141
versions: ["2025"]
---

**(a) Against Whom Assessed.** The following rules apply unless the law provides or the district court or BAP orders otherwise:

**(1)** if an appeal is dismissed, costs are taxed against the appellant, unless the parties agree otherwise;

**(2)** if a judgment is affirmed, costs are taxed against the appellant;

**(3)** if a judgment is reversed, costs are taxed against the appellee;

**(4)** if a judgment is affirmed or reversed in part, modified, or vacated, costs are taxed only as the district court or BAP orders.

**(b) Costs for and Against the United States.** Costs for or against the United States, its agency, or its officer may be assessed under (a) only if authorized by law.

**(c) Costs on Appeal Taxable in the Bankruptcy Court.** The following costs on appeal are taxable in the bankruptcy court for the benefit of the party entitled to costs under this rule:

**(1)** producing any required copies of a brief, appendix, exhibit, or the record;

**(2)** preparing and sending the record;

**(3)** the reporter’s transcript, if needed to determine the appeal;

**(4)** premiums paid for a bond or other security to preserve rights pending appeal; and

**(5)** the fee for filing the notice of appeal.

**(d) Bill of Costs; Objections.** A party who wants costs taxed must, within 14 days after a judgment on appeal is entered, file with the bankruptcy clerk and serve an itemized and verified bill of costs. Objections must be filed within 14 days after the bill of costs is served, unless the bankruptcy court extends the time. (Added Apr. 25, 2014, eff. Dec. 1, 2014; amended Apr. 26, 2018, eff. Dec. 1, 2018; Apr. 27, 2020, eff. Dec. 1, 2020; Apr. 2, 2024, eff. Dec. 1, 2024.)
