---
rule: "31"
title: "Depositions Upon Written Questions"
title_number: "V"
title_name: "Disclosures and Discovery"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2024"
has_deadlines: true
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/file/78323/download"
source_pdf_page: 68
versions: ["2005"]
---

**(a) Serving Questions; Notice. a party, by deposition upon written questions without leave of court except as provided in paragraph (2).** The attendance of witnesses may be compelled by the use of subpoena as provided in Rule 45. ed to the extent consistent with the principles stated in Rule 26(b)(2), if the person to be examined is confined in prison or if, without the written stipulation of the parties,

**(A)** a proposed deposition would result in more than ten depositions being taken under this rule or Rule 30 by the plaintiffs, or by the defendants, or by third-party defendants;

**(B)** the person to be examined has already been deposed in the case; or

**(C)** a party seeks to take a deposition before the time specified in Rule 26(d). tions shall serve them upon every other party with a notice stating (1) the name and address of the person who is to answer them, if known, and if the name is not known, a general description sufficient to identify the person or the particular class or group to which the person belongs, and (2) the name or descriptive title and address of the officer before whom the deposition is to be taken. A deposition upon written questions may be taken of a public or private corporation or a partnership or association or governmental agency in accordance with the provisions of Rule 30(b)(6). served, a party may serve cross questions upon all other parties. Within 7 days after being served with cross questions, a party may serve redirect questions upon all other parties. Within 7 days after being served with redirect questions, a party may serve recross questions upon all other parties. The court may for cause shown enlarge or shorten the time.

**(b) Officer To Take Responses and Prepare Record.** A copy of the notice and copies of all questions served shall be delivered by the party taking the deposition to the officer designated in the notice, who shall proceed promptly, in the manner provided by Rule 30(c), (e), and (f), to take the testimony of the witness in response to the questions and to prepare, certify, and file or mail the deposition, attaching thereto the copy of the notice and the questions received by the officer.

**(c) Notice of Filing.** When the deposition is filed the party taking it shall promptly give notice thereof to all other parties.

<p class="amendment-history">(As amended Mar. 30, 1970, eff. July 1, 1970; Mar. 2, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 22, 1993, eff. Dec. 1, 1993.)</p>
