---
rule: "8026"
title: "Rules by Circuit Councils and District Courts; Procedure When There is No Controlling Law"
title_number: "VIII"
title_name: "Appeal to a District Court or a Bankruptcy Appellate Panel"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2014"
has_deadlines: false
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/rules-policies/current-rules-practice-procedure/federal-rules-bankruptcy-procedure"
source_pdf_page: 131
versions: ["2015"]
---

**(a) Local Rules by Circuit Councils and District Courts.**

**(1) Adopting Local Rules.** A circuit council that has authorized a BAP under 28 U.S.C. ยง 158(b) may make and amend rules governing the practice and procedure on appeal from a judgment, order, or decree of a bankruptcy court to the BAP. A district court may make and amend rules governing the practice and procedure on appeal from a judgment, order, or decree of a bankruptcy court to the district court. Local rules must be consistent with, but not duplicative of, Acts of Congress and these Part VIII rules. Rule 83 F.R.Civ.P. governs the procedure for making and amending rules to govern appeals.

**(2) Numbering.** Local rules must conform to any uniform numbering system prescribed by the Judicial Conference of the United States.

**(3) Limitation on Imposing Requirements of Form.** A local rule imposing a requirement of form must not be enforced in a way that causes a party to lose any right because of a nonwillful failure to comply.

**(b) Procedure When There Is No Controlling law.**

**(1) In General.** A district court or BAP may regulate practice in any manner consistent with federal law, applicable federal rules, the Official Forms, and local rules.

**(2) Limitation on Sanctions.** No sanction or other disadvantage may be imposed for noncompliance with any requirement not in federal law, applicable federal rules, the Official Forms, or local rules unless the alleged violator has been furnished in the particular case with actual notice of the requirement. (Added Apr. 25, 2014, eff. Dec. 1, 2014.)
