---
rule: "2009"
title: "Trustees for Estates When Joint Administration Ordered"
title_number: "II"
title_name: "Officers and Administration; Notices; Meetings; Examinations; Elections; Attorneys and Accountants"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2013"
has_deadlines: false
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/rules-policies/current-rules-practice-procedure/federal-rules-bankruptcy-procedure"
source_pdf_page: 50
versions: ["2014"]
---

**(a) Election of Single Trustee for Estates Being Jointly Administered.** If the court orders a joint administration of two or more estates under Rule 1015(b), creditors may elect a single trustee for the estates being jointly administered, unless the case is under subchapter V of chapter 7 of the Code.

**(b) Right of Creditors To Elect Separate Trustee.** Notwithstanding entry of an order for joint administration under Rule 1015(b), the creditors of any debtor may elect a separate trustee for the estate of the debtor as provided in § 702 of the Code, unless the case is under subchapter V of chapter 7.

**(c) Appointment of Trustees for Estates Being Jointly Administered .**

**(1) Chapter 7 Liquidation Cases.** Except in a case governed by subchapter V of chapter 7, the United States trustee may appoint one or more interim trustees for estates being jointly administered in chapter 7 cases.

**(2) Chapter 11 Reorganization Cases.** If the appointment of a trustee is ordered, the United States trustee may appoint one or more trustees for estates being jointly administered in chapter 11 cases.

**(3) Chapter 12 Family Farmer’s Debt Adjustment Cases.** The United States trustee may appoint one or more trustees for estates being jointly administered in chapter 12 cases.

**(4) Chapter 13 Individual’s Debt Adjustment Cases.** The United States trustee may appoint one or more trustees for estates being jointly administered in chapter 13 cases.

**(d) Potential Conflicts of Interest.** On a showing that creditors or equity security holders of the different estates will be prejudiced by conflicts of interest of a common trustee who has been elected or appointed, the court shall order the selection of separate trustees for estates being jointly administered.

**(e) Separate Accounts.** The trustee or trustees of estates being jointly administered shall keep separate accounts of the property and distribution of each estate.

<p class="amendment-history">(As amended Mar. 30, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 30, 1991, eff. Aug. 1, 1991; Mar. 27, 2003, eff. Dec. 1, 2003.)</p>
