---
rule: "2009"
title: "Trustees for Jointly Administered Estates"
title_number: "II"
title_name: "Officers and Administration; Notices; Meetings; Examinations; Elections; Attorneys and Accountants"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2024"
has_deadlines: false
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/rules-policies/current-rules-practice-procedure/federal-rules-bankruptcy-procedure"
source_pdf_page: 51
versions: ["2025"]
---

**(a) Creditors ’ Right to Elect a Single Trustee.** Except in a case under Subchapter V of Chapter 7 or Subchapter V of Chapter 11, if the court orders that 2 or more estates be jointly administered under Rule 1015(b), the creditors may elect a single trustee for those estates.

**(b) Creditors ’ Right to Elect a Separate Trustee.** Except in a case under Subchapter V of Chapter 7 or Subchapter V of Chapter 11, any debtor’s creditors may elect a separate trustee for the debtor’s estate under § 702—even if the court orders joint administration under Rule 1015(b).

**(c) United States Trustee ’ s Right to Appoint Interim Trust - ees in Cases with Jointly Administered Estates.**

**(1) Chapter 7. Except in a case under Subchapter V of Chapter 7, the United States trustee may appoint one or more interim trustees for estates being jointly administered in Chapter 7.**

**(2) Chapter 11. If the court orders or the Code requires the appointment of a trustee, the United States trustee may appoint one or more trustees for estates being jointly administered in Chapter 11.**

**(3) Chapter 12 or 13. The United States trustee may appoint one or more trustees for estates being jointly administered in Chapter 12 or 13.**

**(d) Conflicts of Interest.** On a showing that a common trustee’s conflicts of interest will prejudice creditors or equity security holders of jointly administered estates, the court must order the selection of separate trustees for the estates.

**(e) Keeping Separate Accounts.** A trustee of jointly administered estates must keep separate accounts of each estate’s property and distribution.

<p class="amendment-history">(As amended Mar. 30, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 30, 1991, eff. Aug. 1, 1991; Mar. 27, 2003, eff. Dec. 1, 2003; Apr. 11, 2022, eff. Dec. 1, 2022; Apr. 2, 2024, eff. Dec. 1, 2024.)</p>
