---
rule: "8025"
title: "Stay of a District Court or BAP Judgment"
title_number: "VIII"
title_name: "Appeal to a District Court or a Bankruptcy Appellate Panel"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2021"
has_deadlines: true
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/rules-policies/current-rules-practice-procedure/federal-rules-bankruptcy-procedure"
source_pdf_page: 137
versions: ["2022"]
---

**(a) Automatic Stay of Judgment on Appeal.** Unless the district court or BAP orders otherwise, its judgment is stayed for 14 days after entry.

**(b) Stay Pending Appeal to the Court of Appeals.**

**(1) In General.** On a party’s motion and notice to all other parties to the appeal, the district court or BAP may stay its judgment pending an appeal to the court of appeals.

**(2) Time Limit.** The stay must not exceed 30 days after the judgment is entered, except for cause shown.

**(3) Stay Continued.** If, before a stay expires, the party who obtained the stay appeals to the court of appeals, the stay continues until final disposition by the court of appeals.

**(4) Bond or Other Security.** A bond or other security may be required as a condition for granting or continuing a stay of the judgment. A bond or other security may be required if a trustee obtains a stay, but not if a stay is obtained by the United States or its officer or agency or at the direction of any department of the United States government.

**(c) Automatic Stay of an Order, Judgment, or Decree of a Bankruptcy Court.** If the district court or BAP enters a judgment affirming an order, judgment, or decree of the bankruptcy court, a stay of the district court’s or BAP’s judgment automatically stays the bankruptcy court’s order, judgment, or decree for the duration of the appellate stay.

**(d) Power of a Court of Appeals Not Limited.** This rule does not limit the power of a court of appeals or any of its judges to do the following:

**(1)** stay a judgment pending appeal;

**(2)** stay proceedings while an appeal is pending;

**(3)** suspend, modify, restore, vacate, or grant a stay or an injunction while an appeal is pending; or

**(4)** issue any order appropriate to preserve the status quo or the effectiveness of any judgment to be entered. (Added Apr. 25, 2014, eff. Dec. 1, 2014.)
