---
rule: "58"
title: "Entry of Judgment"
title_number: "VII"
title_name: "Judgment"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2024"
has_deadlines: true
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/file/78323/download"
source_pdf_page: 96
versions: ["2006"]
---

**(a) Separate Document.**

**(1) Every judgment and amended judgment must be set forth on a separate document, but a separate document is not required for an order disposing of a motion:**

**(A)** for judgment under Rule 50(b);

**(B)** to amend or make additional findings of fact under Rule 52(b);

**(C)** for attorney fees under Rule 54;

**(D)** for a new trial, or to alter or amend the judgment, under Rule 59; or

**(E)** for relief under Rule 60.

**(2) Subject to Rule 54(b):**

**(A)** unless the court orders otherwise, the clerk must, without awaiting the court’s direction, promptly prepare, sign, and enter the judgment when:

**(i)** the jury returns a general verdict,

**(ii)** the court awards only costs or a sum certain, or

**(iii)** the court denies all relief;

**(B)** the court must promptly approve the form of the judgment, which the clerk must promptly enter, when:

**(i)** the jury returns a special verdict or a general verdict accompanied by interrogatories, or

**(ii)** the court grants other relief not described in Rule 58(a)(2).

**(b) Time of Entry.** Judgment is entered for purposes of these rules:

**(1)** if Rule 58(a)(1) does not require a separate document, when it is entered in the civil docket under Rule 79(a), and

**(2)** if Rule 58(a)(1) requires a separate document, when it is entered in the civil docket under Rule 79(a) and when the earlier of these events occurs:

**(A)** when it is set forth on a separate document, or

**(B)** when 150 days have run from entry in the civil docket under Rule 79(a).

**(c) Cost or Fee Awards.**

**(1) Entry of judgment may not be delayed, nor the time for appeal extended, in order to tax costs or award fees, except as provided in Rule 58(c)(2).**

**(2) When a timely motion for attorney fees is made under Rule 54(d)(2), the court may act before a notice of appeal has been filed and has become effective to order that the motion have the same effect under Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 4(a)(4) as a timely motion under Rule 59.**

**(d) Request for Entry.** A party may request that judgment be set forth on a separate document as required by Rule 58(a)(1).

<p class="amendment-history">(As amended Dec. 27, 1946, eff. Mar. 19, 1948; Jan. 21, 1963, eff. July 1, 1963; Apr. 22, 1993, eff. Dec. 1, 1993; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)</p>
