---
rule: "7001"
title: "Scope of Rules of Part VII"
title_number: "VII"
title_name: "Adversary Proceedings"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2022"
has_deadlines: false
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/rules-policies/current-rules-practice-procedure/federal-rules-bankruptcy-procedure"
source_pdf_page: 101
versions: ["2023"]
---

**(1) An adversary proceeding is governed by the rules of this Part VII.** The following are adversary proceedings: a proceeding to recover money or property, other than a proceeding to compel the debtor to deliver property to the trustee, or a proceeding under § 554(b) or § 725 of the Code, Rule 2017, or Rule 6002;

**(2)** a proceeding to determine the validity, priority, or extent of a lien or other interest in property, but not a proceeding under Rule 3012 or Rule 4003(d);

**(3)** a proceeding to obtain approval under § 363(h) for the sale of both the interest of the estate and of a co-owner in property;

**(4)** a proceeding to object to or revoke a discharge, other than an objection to discharge under §§ 727(a)(8), (a)(9), or 1328(f);

**(5)** a proceeding to revoke an order of confirmation of a chapter 11, chapter 12, or chapter 13 plan;

**(6)** a proceeding to determine the dischargeability of a debt;

**(7)** a proceeding to obtain an injunction or other equitable relief, except when a chapter 9, chapter 11, chapter 12, or chapter 13 plan provides for the relief;

**(8)** a proceeding to subordinate any allowed claim or interest, except when a chapter 9, chapter 11, chapter 12, or chapter 13 plan provides for subordination;

**(9)** a proceeding to obtain a declaratory judgment relating to any of the foregoing; or

**(10)** a proceeding to determine a claim or cause of action removed under 28 U.S.C. § 1452.

<p class="amendment-history">(As amended Mar. 30, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 30, 1991, eff. Aug. 1, 1991; Apr. 26, 1999, eff. Dec. 1, 1999; Apr. 28, 2010, eff. Dec. 1, 2010; Apr. 27, 2017, eff. Dec. 1, 2017.)</p>
