---
rule: "7001"
title: "Types of Adversary Proceedings"
title_number: "VII"
title_name: "Adversary Proceedings"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2024"
has_deadlines: false
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/rules-policies/current-rules-practice-procedure/federal-rules-bankruptcy-procedure"
source_pdf_page: 104
versions: ["2025"]
---

**(a) An adversary proceeding is governed by the rules in this Part VII.** The following are adversary proceedings: a proceeding to recover money or property—except a proceeding to compel the debtor to deliver property to the trustee, a proceeding by an individual debtor to recover tangible personal property under § 542(a), or a proceeding under § 554(b), § 725, Rule 2017, or Rule 6002;

**(b)** a proceeding to determine the validity, priority, or extent of a lien or other interest in property—except a proceeding under Rule 3012 or Rule 4003(d);

**(c)** a proceeding to obtain authority under § 363(h) to sell both the estate’s interest in property and that of a co-owner;

**(d)** a proceeding to revoke or object to a discharge—except an objection under § 727(a)(8) or (a)(9), or § 1328(f);

**(e)** a proceeding to revoke an order confirming a plan in a Chapter 11, 12, or 13 case;

**(f)** a proceeding to determine whether a debt is dischargeable;

**(g)** a proceeding to obtain an injunction or other equitable relief—except when the relief is provided in a Chapter 9, 11, 12, or 13 plan;

**(h)** a proceeding to subordinate an allowed claim or interest—except when subordination is provided in a Chapter 9, 11, 12, or 13 plan;

**(i)** a proceeding to obtain a declaratory judgment related to any proceeding described in (a)–(h); and

**(j)** a proceeding to determine a claim or cause of action removed under 28 U.S.C. § 1452.

<p class="amendment-history">(As amended Mar. 30, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 30, 1991, eff. Aug. 1, 1991; Apr. 26, 1999, eff. Dec. 1, 1999; Apr. 28, 2010, eff. Dec. 1, 2010; Apr. 27, 2017, eff. Dec. 1, 2017; Apr. 2, 2024, eff. Dec. 1, 2024.)</p>
