---
rule: "77"
title: "Conducting Business; Clerk’s Authority; Notice of an Order or Judgment"
title_number: "X"
title_name: "District Courts and Clerks: Conducting Business; Issuing Orders"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2009"
has_deadlines: false
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/file/78323/download"
source_pdf_page: 108
versions: ["2010"]
---

**(a) When Court Is Open.** Every district court is considered always open for filing any paper, issuing and returning process, making a motion, or entering an order.

**(b) Place for Trial and Other Proceedings.** Every trial on the merits must be conducted in open court and, so far as convenient, in a regular courtroom. Any other act or proceeding may be done or conducted by a judge in chambers, without the attendance of the clerk or other court official, and anywhere inside or outside the district. But no hearing—other than one ex parte—may be conducted outside the district unless all the affected parties consent.

**(c) Clerk ’ s Office Hours; Clerk ’ s Orders.**

**(1) Hours.** The clerk’s office—with a clerk or deputy on duty—must be open during business hours every day except Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. But a court may, by local rule or order, require that the office be open for specified hours on Saturday or a particular legal holiday other than one listed in Rule 6(a)(4)(A).

**(2) Orders.** Subject to the court’s power to suspend, alter, or rescind the clerk’s action for good cause, the clerk may:

**(A)** issue process;

**(B)** enter a default;

**(C)** enter a default judgment under Rule 55(b)(1); and

**(D)** act on any other matter that does not require the court’s action.

**(d) Serving Notice of an Order or Judgment.**

**(1) Service.** Immediately after entering an order or judgment, the clerk must serve notice of the entry, as provided in Rule 5(b), on each party who is not in default for failing to appear. The clerk must record the service on the docket. A party also may serve notice of the entry as provided in Rule 5(b).

**(2) Time to Appeal Not Affected by Lack of Notice.** Lack of notice of the entry does not affect the time for appeal or relieve—or authorize the court to relieve—a party for failing to appeal within the time allowed, except as allowed by Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure (4)(a).

<p class="amendment-history">(As amended Dec. 27, 1946, eff. Mar. 19, 1948; Jan. 21, 1963, eff. July 1, 1963; Dec. 4, 1967, eff. July 1, 1968; Mar. 1, 1971, eff. July 1, 1971; Mar. 2, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 30, 1991, eff. Dec. 1, 1991; Apr. 23, 2001, eff. Dec. 1, 2001; Apr. 30, 2007, eff. Dec. 1, 2007.)</p>
