---
rule: "8005"
title: "Election to Have an Appeal Heard by the District Court Instead of the BAP"
title_number: "VIII"
title_name: "Appeal to a District Court or a Bankruptcy Appellate Panel"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2016"
has_deadlines: true
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/rules-policies/current-rules-practice-procedure/federal-rules-bankruptcy-procedure"
source_pdf_page: 109
versions: ["2017"]
---

**(a) Filing of a Statement of Election.** To elect to have an appeal heard by the district court, a party must:

**(1)** file a statement of election that conforms substantially to the appropriate Official Form; and

**(2)** do so within the time prescribed by 28 U.S.C. § 158(c)(1).

**(b) Transmitting the Documents Related to the Appeal.** Upon receiving an appellant’s timely statement of election, the bankruptcy clerk must transmit to the district clerk all documents related to the appeal. Upon receiving a timely statement of election by a party other than the appellant, the BAP clerk must transmit to the district clerk all documents related to the appeal and notify the bankruptcy clerk of the transmission.

**(c) Determining the Validity of an Election.** A party seeking a determination of the validity of an election must file a motion in the court where the appeal is then pending. The motion must be filed within 14 days after the statement of election is filed.

**(d) Motion for Leave Without a Notice of Appeal —Effect on the Timing of an Election.** If an appellant moves for leave to appeal under Rule 8004 but fails to file a separate notice of appeal with the motion, the motion must be treated as a notice of appeal for purposes of determining the timeliness of a statement of election. (Added Apr. 25, 2014, eff. Dec. 1, 2014.)
