---
rule: "9036"
title: "Notice and Service by Electronic Transmission"
title_number: "IX"
title_name: "General Provisions"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2023"
has_deadlines: false
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/rules-policies/current-rules-practice-procedure/federal-rules-bankruptcy-procedure"
source_pdf_page: 154
versions: ["2024"]
---

**(a) In General.** This rule applies whenever these rules require or permit sending a notice or serving a paper by mail or other means.

**(b) Notices From and Service by the Court.**

**(1) Registered Users.** The clerk may send notice to or serve a registered user by filing the notice or paper with the court’s electronic-filing system.

**(2) All Recipients.** For any recipient, the clerk may send notice or serve a paper by electronic means that the recipient consented to in writing, including by designating an electronic address for receipt of notices. But these exceptions apply:

**(A)** if the recipient has registered an electronic address with the Administrative Office of the United States Courts’ bankruptcy-noticing program, the clerk shall send the notice to or serve the paper at that address; and

**(B)** if an entity has been designated by the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts as a high-volume paper-notice recipient, the clerk may send the notice to or serve the paper electronically at an address designated by the Director, unless the entity has designated an address under § 342(e) or (f) of the Code.

**(c) Notices From and Service by an Entity.** An entity may send notice or serve a paper in the same manner that the clerk does under (b), excluding (b)(2)(A) and (B).

**(d) Completing Notice or Service.** Electronic notice or service is complete upon filing or sending but is not effective if the filer or sender receives notice that it did not reach the person to be served. It is the recipient’s responsibility to keep its electronic address current with the clerk.

**(e) Inapplicability.** This rule does not apply to any paper required to be served in accordance with Rule 7004. (Added Apr. 22, 1993, eff. Aug. 1, 1993; amended Apr. 25, 2005, eff. Dec. 1, 2005; Apr. 25, 2019, eff. Dec. 1, 2019; Apr. 14, 2021, eff. Dec. 1, 2021.)
