---
rule: "28"
title: "Persons Before Whom Depositions May Be Taken"
title_number: "V"
title_name: "Disclosures and Discovery"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2024"
has_deadlines: false
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/file/78323/download"
source_pdf_page: 67
versions: ["2021"]
---

**(a) Within the United States.**

**(1) In General.** Within the United States or a territory or insular possession subject to United States jurisdiction, a deposition must be taken before:

**(A)** an officer authorized to administer oaths either by federal law or by the law in the place of examination; or

**(B)** a person appointed by the court where the action is pending to administer oaths and take testimony.

**(2) Definition of ‘‘Officer.’’ The term ‘‘officer’’ in Rules 30, 31, and 32 includes a person appointed by the court under this rule or designated by the parties under Rule 29(a).**

**(b) In a Foreign Country.**

**(1) In General.** A deposition may be taken in a foreign country:

**(A)** under an applicable treaty or convention;

**(B)** under a letter of request, whether or not captioned a ‘‘letter rogatory’’;

**(C)** on notice, before a person authorized to administer oaths either by federal law or by the law in the place of examination; or

**(D)** before a person commissioned by the court to administer any necessary oath and take testimony.

**(2) Issuing a Letter of Request or a Commission.** A letter of request, a commission, or both may be issued:

**(A)** on appropriate terms after an application and notice of it; and

**(B)** without a showing that taking the deposition in another manner is impracticable or inconvenient.

**(3) Form of a Request, Notice, or Commission.** When a letter of request or any other device is used according to a treaty or convention, it must be captioned in the form prescribed by that treaty or convention. A letter of request may be addressed ‘‘To the Appropriate Authority in [name of country].’’ A deposition notice or a commission must designate by name or descriptive title the person before whom the deposition is to be taken.

**(4) Letter of Request—Admitting Evidence.** Evidence obtained in response to a letter of request need not be excluded merely because it is not a verbatim transcript, because the testimony was not taken under oath, or because of any similar departure from the requirements for depositions taken within the United States.

**(c) Disqualification.** A deposition must not be taken before a person who is any party’s relative, employee, or attorney; who is related to or employed by any party’s attorney; or who is financially interested in the action.

<p class="amendment-history">(As amended Dec. 27, 1946, eff. Mar. 19, 1948; Jan. 21, 1963, eff. July 1, 1963; Apr. 29, 1980, eff. Aug. 1, 1980; Mar. 2, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 22, 1993, eff. Dec. 1, 1993; Apr. 1, 2007, eff. Dec. 1, 2007.)</p>
