---
rule: "2018"
title: "Intervention by an Interested Entity; Right to Be Heard"
title_number: "II"
title_name: "Officers and Administration; Notices; Meetings; Examinations; Elections; Attorneys and Accountants"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2024"
has_deadlines: false
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/rules-policies/current-rules-practice-procedure/federal-rules-bankruptcy-procedure"
source_pdf_page: 59
versions: ["2025"]
---

**(a) In General.** After hearing on such notice as the court orders and for cause, the court may permit an interested entity to intervene generally or in any specified matter.

**(b) Intervention by a State Attorney General.** In a Chapter 7, 11, 12, or 13 case, a state attorney general may appear and be heard on behalf of consumer creditors if the court determines that the appearance is in the public interest. But the state attorney general may not appeal from any judgment, order, or decree entered in the case.

**(c) Intervention by the United States Secretary of the Treasury or a State Representative.** In a Chapter 9 case:

**(1)** the United States Secretary of the Treasury may—and if requested by the court must—intervene; and

**(2)** a representative of the state where the debtor is located may intervene in any matter the court specifies.

**(d) Intervention by a Labor Union or an Association Rep - resenting the Debtor ’ s Employees.** In a Chapter 9, 11, or 12 case, a labor union or an association representing the debtor’s employees has the right to be heard on the economic soundness of a plan affecting the employees’ interests. Unless otherwise permitted by law, the labor union or employees’ association exercising that right may not appeal any judgment, order, or decree related to the plan.

**(e) Serving Entities Covered by This Rule.** The court may issue orders governing the service of notice and documents on entities permitted to intervene or be heard under this Rule 2018.

<p class="amendment-history">(As amended Mar. 30, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 30, 1991, eff. Aug. 1, 1991; Apr. 2, 2024, eff. Dec. 1, 2024.)</p>
