---
rule: "8009"
title: "Briefs and Appendix; Filing and Service"
title_number: "VIII"
title_name: "Appeal to a District Court or a Bankruptcy Appellate Panel"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2012"
has_deadlines: true
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/rules-policies/current-rules-practice-procedure/federal-rules-bankruptcy-procedure"
source_pdf_page: 112
versions: ["2013"]
---

**(a) Briefs.** Unless the district court or the bankruptcy appellate panel by local rule or by order excuses the filing of briefs or specifies different time limits:

**(1)** The appellant shall serve and file a brief within 14 days after entry of the appeal on the docket pursuant to Rule 8007.

**(2) The appellee shall serve and file a brief within 14 days after service of the brief of appellant.** If the appellee has filed a cross appeal, the brief of the appellee shall contain the issues and argument pertinent to the cross appeal, denominated as such, and the response to the brief of the appellant.

**(3) The appellant may serve and file a reply brief within 14 days after service of the brief of the appellee, and if the appellee has cross-appealed, the appellee may file and serve a reply brief to the response of the appellant to the issues presented in the cross appeal within 14 days after service of the reply brief of the appellant.** No further briefs may be filed except with leave of the district court or the bankruptcy appellate panel.

**(b) Appendix to Brief.** If the appeal is to a bankruptcy appellate panel, the appellant shall serve and file with the appellant’s brief excerpts of the record as an appendix, which shall include the following:

**(1) The complaint and answer or other equivalent pleadings;**

**(2) Any pretrial order;**

**(3) The judgment, order, or decree from which the appeal is taken;**

**(4) Any other orders relevant to the appeal;**

**(5)** The opinion, findings of fact, or conclusions of law filed or delivered orally by the court and citations of the opinion if published;

**(6) Any motion and response on which the court rendered decision;**

**(7) The notice of appeal;**

**(8) The relevant entries in the bankruptcy docket; and**

**(9) The transcript or portion thereof, if so required by a rule of the bankruptcy appellate panel.** An appellee may also serve and file an appendix which contains material required to be included by the appellant but omitted by appellant.

<p class="amendment-history">(As amended Mar. 30, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987; Mar. 26, 2009, eff. Dec. 1, 2009.)</p>
