---
rule: "9001"
title: "General Definitions"
title_number: "IX"
title_name: "General Provisions"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2021"
has_deadlines: false
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/rules-policies/current-rules-practice-procedure/federal-rules-bankruptcy-procedure"
source_pdf_page: 139
versions: ["2022"]
---

**(1) The definitions of words and phrases in §§ 101, 902, 1101, and 1502 of the Code, and the rules of construction in § 102, govern their use in these rules.** In addition, the following words and phrases used in these rules have the meanings indicated: ‘‘Bankruptcy clerk’’ means a clerk appointed pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 156(b).

**(2) ‘‘Bankruptcy Code’’ or ‘‘Code’’ means title 11 of the United States Code.**

**(3) ‘‘Clerk’’ means bankruptcy clerk, if one has been appointed, otherwise clerk of the district court.**

**(4) ‘‘Court’’ or ‘‘judge’’ means the judicial officer before whom a case or proceeding is pending.**

**(5)** ‘‘Debtor.’’ When any act is required by these rules to be performed by a debtor or when it is necessary to compel attendance of a debtor for examination and the debtor is not a natural person: (A) if the debtor is a corporation, ‘‘debtor’’ includes, if designated by the court, any or all of its officers, members of its board of directors or trustees or of a similar controlling body, a controlling stockholder or member, or any other person in control; (B) if the debtor is a partnership, ‘‘debtor’’ includes any or all of its general partners or, if designated by the court, any other person in control.

**(6) ‘‘Firm’’ includes a partnership or professional corporation of attorneys or accountants.**

**(7) ‘‘Judgment’’ means any appealable order.**

**(8) ‘‘Mail’’ means first class, postage prepaid.**

**(9)** ‘‘Notice provider’’ means any entity approved by the Administrative Office of the United States Courts to give notice to creditors under Rule 2002(g)(4).

**(10)** ‘‘Regular associate’’ means any attorney regularly employed by, associated with, or counsel to an individual or firm.

**(11) ‘‘Trustee’’ includes a debtor in possession in a chapter 11 case.**

**(12)** ‘‘United States trustee’’ includes an assistant United States trustee and any designee of the United States trustee.

<p class="amendment-history">(As amended Mar. 30, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 30, 1991, eff. Aug. 1, 1991; Apr. 25, 2005, eff. Dec. 1, 2005; Apr. 28, 2010, eff. Dec. 1, 2010.)</p>
