---
rule: "3017.1"
title: "Court Consideration of Disclosure Statement in a Small Business Case"
title_number: "III"
title_name: "Claims; Plans; Distributions to Creditors and Equity Interest Holders"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2009"
has_deadlines: false
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/rules-policies/current-rules-practice-procedure/federal-rules-bankruptcy-procedure"
source_pdf_page: 68
versions: ["2010"]
---

**(a) Conditional Approval of Disclosure Statement.** In a small business case, the court may, on application of the plan proponent or on its own initiative, conditionally approve a disclosure statement filed in accordance with Rule 3016. On or before conditional approval of the disclosure statement, the court shall:

**(1)** fix a time within which the holders of claims and interests may accept or reject the plan;

**(2)** fix a time for filing objections to the disclosure statement;

**(3)** fix a date for the hearing on final approval of the disclosure statement to be held if a timely objection is filed; and

**(4)** fix a date for the hearing on confirmation.

**(b) Application of Rule 3017. Rule 3017(a), (b), (c), and (e) do not apply to a conditionally approved disclosure statement.** Rule 3017(d) applies to a conditionally approved disclosure statement, except that conditional approval is considered approval of the disclosure statement for the purpose of applying Rule 3017(d).

**(c) Final Approval.**

**(1) Notice.** Notice of the time fixed for filing objections and the hearing to consider final approval of the disclosure statement shall be given in accordance with Rule 2002 and may be combined with notice of the hearing on confirmation of the plan.

**(2) Objections.** Objections to the disclosure statement shall be filed, transmitted to the United States trustee, and served on the debtor, the trustee, any committee appointed under the Code and any other entity designated by the court at any time before final approval of the disclosure statement or by an earlier date as the court may fix.

**(3) Hearing.** If a timely objection to the disclosure statement is filed, the court shall hold a hearing to consider final approval before or combined with the hearing on confirmation of the plan. (Added Apr. 11, 1997, eff. Dec. 1, 1997; amended Apr. 23, 2008, eff. Dec. 1, 2008.)
