---
rule: "3017.1"
title: "Disclosure Statement in a Small Business Case or a Case Under Subchapter V of Chapter 11"
title_number: "III"
title_name: "Claims; Plans; Distributions to Creditors and Equity Interest Holders"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2024"
has_deadlines: false
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/rules-policies/current-rules-practice-procedure/federal-rules-bankruptcy-procedure"
source_pdf_page: 77
versions: ["2025"]
---

**(a) Conditionally Approving a Disclosure Statement.** This section (a) applies in a small business case or in a case under Subchapter V of Chapter 11 in which the court has ordered that § 1125 applies. The court may, on motion of the plan proponent or on its own, conditionally approve a disclosure statement filed under Rule 3016. On or before doing so, the court must:

**(1)** set the time within which the claim holders and interest holders may accept or reject the plan;

**(2)** set the time to file an objection to the disclosure statement;

**(3)** if a timely objection is filed, set the date to hold the hearing on final approval of the disclosure statement; and

**(4)** set a date for the confirmation hearing.

**(b) Effect of a Conditional Approval.** Rule 3017(a)–(c) and (e) do not apply to a conditionally approved disclosure statement. But conditional approval is considered approval in applying Rule 3017(d).

**(c) Time to File an Objection; Date of a Hearing.**

**(1) Notice.** Notice must be given under Rule 2002(b) of the time to file an objection and the date of a hearing to consider final approval of the disclosure statement. The notice may be combined with notice of the confirmation hearing.

**(2) Time to File an Objection to the Disclosure Statement.** An objection to the disclosure statement must be filed before it is finally approved or by an earlier date set by the court. The objection must be served on: • the debtor; • the trustee; • any appointed committee; and • any other entity the court designates. A copy must also be sent to the United States trustee.

**(3) Hearing on an Objection to the Disclosure Statement.** If a timely objection to the disclosure statement is filed, the court must hold a hearing on final approval either before or combined with the confirmation hearing. (Added Apr. 11, 1997, eff. Dec. 1, 1997; amended Apr. 23, 2008, eff. Dec. 1, 2008; Apr. 11, 2022, eff. Dec. 1, 2022; Apr. 2, 2024, eff. Dec. 1, 2024.)
