---
rule: "2014"
title: "Employing Professionals"
title_number: "II"
title_name: "Officers and Administration; Notices; Meetings; Examinations; Elections; Attorneys and Accountants"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2024"
has_deadlines: false
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/rules-policies/current-rules-practice-procedure/federal-rules-bankruptcy-procedure"
source_pdf_page: 53
versions: ["2025"]
---

**(a) Order Approving Employment; Application for Employ - ment .**

**(1) Order Approving Employment.** The court may approve the employment of an attorney, accountant, appraiser, auctioneer, agent, or other professional under § 327, § 1103, or § 1114 only on the trustee’s or committee’s application.

**(2) Application for Employment.** The applicant must file the application and, except in a Chapter 9 case, must send a copy to the United States trustee. The application must state specific facts showing:

**(A)** the need for the employment;

**(B)** the name of the person to be employed;

**(C)** the reasons for the selection;

**(D)** the professional services to be rendered;

**(E)** any proposed arrangement for compensation; and

**(F)** to the best of the applicant’s knowledge, all the person’s connections with: • the debtor; • creditors; • any other party in interest; • their respective attorneys and accountants; • the United States trustee; and • any person employed in the United States trustee’s office.

**(3) Verified Statement of the Person to Be Employed.** The application must be accompanied by a verified statement of the person to be employed, setting forth that person’s connections with any entity listed in (2)(F).

**(b) Services Rendered by a Member or Associate of a Law or Accounting Firm.** If a law partnership or corporation is employed as an attorney, or an accounting partnership or corporation is employed as an accountant—or if a named attorney or accountant is employed—then any partner, member, or regular associate may act as so employed, without further court order.

<p class="amendment-history">(As amended Mar. 30, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 30, 1991, eff. Aug. 1, 1991; Apr. 2, 2024, eff. Dec. 1, 2024.)</p>
