---
rule: "41"
title: "Mandate: Contents; Issuance and Effective Date; Stay"
title_number: "VII"
title_name: "General Provisions"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2007"
has_deadlines: true
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/rules-policies/current-rules-practice-procedure/federal-rules-appellate-procedure"
source_pdf_page: 53
versions: ["2008"]
---

**(a) Contents.** Unless the court directs that a formal mandate issue, the mandate consists of a certified copy of the judgment, a copy of the court’s opinion, if any, and any direction about costs.

**(b) When Issued.** The court’s mandate must issue 7 calendar days after the time to file a petition for rehearing expires, or 7 calendar days after entry of an order denying a timely petition for panel rehearing, petition for rehearing en banc, or motion for stay of mandate, whichever is later. The court may shorten or extend the time.

**(c) Effective Date.** The mandate is effective when issued.

**(d) Staying the Mandate.**

**(1) On Petition for Rehearing or Motion.** The timely filing of a petition for panel rehearing, petition for rehearing en banc, or motion for stay of mandate, stays the mandate until disposition of the petition or motion, unless the court orders otherwise.

**(2) Pending Petition for Certiorari.**

**(A) A party may move to stay the mandate pending the filing of a petition for a writ of certiorari in the Supreme Court.** The motion must be served on all parties and must show that the certiorari petition would present a substantial question and that there is good cause for a stay.

**(B) The stay must not exceed 90 days, unless the period is extended for good cause or unless the party who obtained the stay files a petition for the writ and so notifies the circuit clerk in writing within the period of the stay.** In that case, the stay continues until the Supreme Court’s final disposition.

**(C) The court may require a bond or other security as a condition to granting or continuing a stay of the mandate.**

**(D) The court of appeals must issue the mandate immediately when a copy of a Supreme Court order denying the petition for writ of certiorari is filed.

<p class="amendment-history">(As amended Apr. 29, 1994, eff.** Dec. 1, 1994; Apr. 24, 1998, eff. Dec. 1, 1998; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)</p>
