---
rule: "71"
title: "Process in Behalf of and Against Persons Not Parties"
title_number: "IX"
title_name: "Special Proceedings"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 31, 2004"
has_deadlines: false
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/file/78323/download"
source_pdf_page: 104
versions: ["2005"]
---

When an order is made in favor of a person who is not a party to the action, that person may enforce obedience to the order by the same process as if a party; and, when obedience to an order may be lawfully enforced against a person who is not a party, that person is liable to the same process for enforcing obedience to the order as if a party.

<p class="amendment-history">(As amended Mar. 2, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987.)</p>

## Appended Forms

Rule 71A IX. SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS Rule 71A. Condemnation of Property (a) Applicability of Other Rules . The Rules of Civil Procedure for the United States District Courts govern the procedure for the condemnation of real and personal property under the power of eminent domain, except as otherwise provided in this rule. (b) Joinder of Properties . The plaintiff may join in the same action one or more separate pieces of property, whether in the same or different ownership and whether or not sought for the same use. (c) Complaint . (1) Caption . The complaint shall contain a caption as pro- vided in Rule 10(a), except that the plaintiff shall name as de- fendants the property, designated generally by kind, quantity, and location, and at least one of the owners of some part of or interest in the property. (2) Contents . The complaint shall contain a short and plain statement of the authority for the taking, the use for which the property is to be taken, a description of the property suffi- cient for its identification, the interests to be acquired, and as to each separate piece of property a designation of the defend- ants who have been joined as owners thereof or of some inter- est therein. Upon the commencement of the action, the plain- tiff need join as defendants only the persons having or claim- ing an interest in the property whose names are then known, but prior to any hearing involving the compensation to be paid for a piece of property, the plaintiff shall add as defend- ants all persons having or claiming an interest in that prop- erty whose names can be ascertained by a reasonably diligent search of the records, considering the character and value of the property involved and the interests to be acquired, and also those whose names have otherwise been learned. All oth- ers may be made defendants under the designation ‘‘Unknown Owners.’’ Process shall be served as provided in subdivision (d) of this rule upon all defendants, whether named as defendants at the time of the commencement of the action or subse- quently added, and a defendant may answer as provided in sub- division (e) of this rule. The court meanwhile may order such distribution of a deposit as the facts warrant. (3) Filing . In addition to filing the complaint with the court, the plaintiff shall furnish to the clerk at least one copy there- of for the use of the defendants and additional copies at the re- quest of the clerk or of a defendant. (d) Process . (1) Notice; Delivery . Upon the filing of the complaint the plaintiff shall forthwith deliver to the clerk joint or several notices directed to the defendants named or designated in the complaint. Additional notices directed to defendants subse- quently added shall be so delivered. The delivery of the notice and its service have the same effect as the delivery and service of the summons under Rule 4. Rule 71A (2) Same; Form . Each notice shall state the court, the title of the action, the name of the defendant to whom it is directed, that the action is to condemn property, a description of the defendant’s property sufficient for its identification, the inter- est to be taken, the authority for the taking, the uses for which the property is to be taken, that the defendant may serve upon the plaintiff’s attorney an answer within 20 days after service of the notice, and that the failure so to serve an answer constitutes a consent to the taking and to the author- ity of the court to proceed to hear the action and to fix the compensation. The notice shall conclude with the name of the plaintiff’s attorney and an address within the district in which action is brought where the attorney may be served. The no- tice need contain a description of no other property than that to be taken from the defendants to whom it is directed. (3) Service of Notice. (A) Personal Service. Personal service of the notice (but without copies of the complaint) shall be made in accord- ance with Rule 4 upon a defendant whose residence is known and who resides within the United States or a terri- tory subject to the administrative or judicial jurisdiction of the United States. (B) Service by Publication. Upon the filing of a certifi- cate of the plaintiff’s attorney stating that the attorney believes a defendant cannot be personally served, because after diligent inquiry within the state in which the com- plaint is filed the defendant’s place of residence cannot be ascertained by the plaintiff or, if ascertained, that it is be- yond the territorial limits of personal service as provided in this rule, service of the notice shall be made on this de- fendant by publication in a newspaper published in the county where the property is located, or if there is no such newspaper, then in a newspaper having a general circula- tion where the property is located, once a week for not less than three successive weeks. Prior to the last publication, a copy of the notice shall also be mailed to a defendant who cannot be personally served as provided in this rule but whose place of residence is then known. Unknown own- ers may be served by publication in like manner by a no- tice addressed to ‘‘Unknown Owners.’’ Service by publication is complete upon the date of the last publication. Proof of publication and mailing shall be made by certificate of the plaintiff’s attorney, to which shall be attached a printed copy of the published notice with the name and dates of the newspaper marked thereon. (4) Return; Amendment . Proof of service of the notice shall be made and amendment of the notice or proof of its service al- lowed in the manner provided for the return and amendment of the summons under Rule 4. (e) Appearance or Answer . If a defendant has no objection or defense to the taking of the defendant’s property, the defendant may serve a notice of appearance designating the property in which the defendant claims to be interested. Thereafter, the de- fendant shall receive notice of all proceedings affecting it. If a de- fendant has any objection or defense to the taking of the property, Rule 71A the defendant shall serve an answer within 20 days after the serv- ice of notice upon the defendant. The answer shall identify the property in which the defendant claims to have an interest, state the nature and extent of the interest claimed, and state all the de- fendant’s objections and defenses to the taking of the property. A defendant waives all defenses and objections not so presented, but at the trial of the issue of just compensation, whether or not the defendant has previously appeared or answered, the defendant may present evidence as to the amount of the compensation to be paid for the property, and the defendant may share in the dis- tribution of the award. No other pleading or motion asserting any additional defense or objection shall be allowed. (f) Amendment of Pleadings . Without leave of court, the plain- tiff may amend the complaint at any time before the trial of the issue of compensation and as many times as desired, but no amendment shall be made which will result in a dismissal forbid- den by subdivision (i) of this rule. The plaintiff need not serve a copy of an amendment, but shall serve notice of the filing, as pro- vided in Rule 5(b), upon any party affected thereby who has ap- peared and, in the manner provided in subdivision (d) of this rule, upon any party affected thereby who has not appeared. The plain- tiff shall furnish to the clerk of the court for the use of the de- fendants at least one copy of each amendment and shall furnish additional copies on the request of the clerk or of a defendant. Within the time allowed by subdivision (e) of this rule a defendant may serve an answer to the amended pleading, in the form and manner and with the same effect as there provided. (g) Substitution of Parties . If a defendant dies or becomes in- competent or transfers an interest after the defendant’s joinder, the court may order substitution of the proper party upon motion and notice of hearing. If the motion and notice of hearing are to be served upon a person not already a party, service shall be made as provided in subdivision (d)(3) of this rule. (h) Trial . If the action involves the exercise of the power of eminent domain under the law of the United States, any tribunal specially constituted by an Act of Congress governing the case for the trial of the issue of just compensation shall be the tribunal for the determination of that issue; but if there is no such specially constituted tribunal any party may have a trial by jury of the issue of just compensation by filing a demand therefor within the time allowed for answer or within such further time as the court may fix, unless the court in its discretion orders that, because of the character, location, or quantity of the property to be con- demned, or for other reasons in the interest of justice, the issue of compensation shall be determined by a commission of three persons appointed by it. In the event that a commission is appointed the court may di- rect that not more than two additional persons serve as alternate commissioners to hear the case and replace commissioners who, prior to the time when a decision is filed, are found by the court to be unable or disqualified to perform their duties. An alternate who does not replace a regular commissioner shall be discharged after the commission renders its final decision. Before appointing the members of the commission and alternates the court shall ad- vise the parties of the identity and qualifications of each prospec- Rule 71A tive commissioner and alternate and may permit the parties to examine each such designee. The parties shall not be permitted or required by the court to suggest nominees. Each party shall have the right to object for valid cause to the appointment of any per- son as a commissioner or alternate. If a commission is appointed it shall have the authority of a master provided in Rule 53(c) and proceedings before it shall be governed by the provisions of Rule 53(d). Its action and report shall be determined by a majority and its findings and report shall have the effect, and be dealt with by the court in accordance with the practice, prescribed in Rule 53(e), (f), and (g). Trial of all issues shall otherwise be by the court. (i) Dismissal of Action . (1) As of Right . If no hearing has begun to determine the compensation to be paid for a piece of property and the plain- tiff has not acquired the title or a lesser interest in or taken possession, the plaintiff may dismiss the action as to that property, without an order of the court, by filing a notice of dismissal setting forth a brief description of the property as to which the action is dismissed. (2) By Stipulation . Before the entry of any judgment vesting the plaintiff with title or a lesser interest in or possession of property, the action may be dismissed in whole or in part, without an order of the court, as to any property by filing a stipulation of dismissal by the plaintiff and the defendant af- fected thereby; and, if the parties so stipulate, the court may vacate any judgment that has been entered. (3) By Order of the Court . At any time before compensation for a piece of property has been determined and paid and after motion and hearing, the court may dismiss the action as to that property, except that it shall not dismiss the action as to any part of the property of which the plaintiff has taken pos- session or in which the plaintiff has taken title or a lesser in- terest, but shall award just compensation for the possession, title or lesser interest so taken. The court at any time may drop a defendant unnecessarily or improperly joined. (4) Effect . Except as otherwise provided in the notice, or stip- ulation of dismissal, or order of the court, any dismissal is without prejudice. (j) Deposit AND Its Distribution . The plaintiff shall deposit with the court any money required by law as a condition to the exercise of the power of eminent domain; and, although not so re- quired, may make a deposit when permitted by statute. In such cases the court and attorneys shall expedite the proceedings for the distribution of the money so deposited and for the ascertain- ment and payment of just compensation. If the compensation fi- nally awarded to any defendant exceeds the amount which has been paid to that defendant on distribution of the deposit, the court shall enter judgment against the plaintiff and in favor of that defendant for the deficiency. If the compensation finally awarded to any defendant is less than the amount which has been paid to that defendant, the court shall enter judgment against that defendant and in favor of the plaintiff for the overpayment. (k) Condemnation Under a State ’ s Power of Eminent Domain . The practice as herein prescribed governs in actions involving the exercise of the power of eminent domain under the law of a state, provided that if the state law makes provision for trial of any issue by jury, or for trial of the issue of compensation by jury or commission or both, that provision shall be followed. ( l ) Costs . Costs are not subject to Rule 54(d). (As added Apr. 30, 1951, eff. Aug. 1, 1951; amended Jan. 21, 1963, eff. July 1, 1963; Apr. 29, 1985, eff. Aug. 1, 1985; Mar. 2, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 25, 1988, eff. Aug. 1, 1988; Nov. 18, 1988; Apr. 22, 1993, eff. Dec. 1, 1993; Mar. 27, 2003, eff. Dec. 1, 2003.)
