---
rule: "55"
title: "Default; Default Judgment"
title_number: "VII"
title_name: "Judgment"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2010"
has_deadlines: true
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/file/78323/download"
source_pdf_page: 94
versions: ["2011"]
---

**(a) Entering a Default.** When a party against whom a judgment for affirmative relief is sought has failed to plead or otherwise defend, and that failure is shown by affidavit or otherwise, the clerk must enter the party’s default.

**(b) Entering a Default Judgment.**

**(1) By the Clerk.** If the plaintiff’s claim is for a sum certain or a sum that can be made certain by computation, the clerk— on the plaintiff’s request, with an affidavit showing the amount due—must enter judgment for that amount and costs against a defendant who has been defaulted for not appearing and who is neither a minor nor an incompetent person.

**(2) By the Court.** In all other cases, the party must apply to the court for a default judgment. A default judgment may be entered against a minor or incompetent person only if represented by a general guardian, conservator, or other like fiduciary who has appeared. If the party against whom a default judgment is sought has appeared personally or by a representative, that party or its representative must be served with written notice of the application at least 7 days before the hearing. The court may conduct hearings or make referrals— preserving any federal statutory right to a jury trial—when, to enter or effectuate judgment, it needs to:

**(A)** conduct an accounting;

**(B)** determine the amount of damages;

**(C)** establish the truth of any allegation by evidence; or

**(D)** investigate any other matter.

**(c) Setting Aside a Default or a Default Judgment.** The court may set aside an entry of default for good cause, and it may set aside a default judgment under Rule 60(b).

**(d) Judgment Against the United States.** A default judgment may be entered against the United States, its officers, or its agencies only if the claimant establishes a claim or right to relief by evidence that satisfies the court.

<p class="amendment-history">(As amended Mar. 2, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 30, 2007, eff. Dec. 1, 2007; Mar. 26, 2009, eff. Dec. 1, 2009.)</p>
