---
rule: "46"
title: "Attorneys"
title_number: "VII"
title_name: "General Provisions"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2006"
has_deadlines: false
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/rules-policies/current-rules-practice-procedure/federal-rules-appellate-procedure"
source_pdf_page: 57
versions: ["2007"]
---

**(a) Admission to the Bar.**

**(1) Eligibility.** An attorney is eligible for admission to the bar of a court of appeals if that attorney is of good moral and professional character and is admitted to practice before the Supreme Court of the United States, the highest court of a state, another United States court of appeals, or a United States district court (including the district courts for Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Virgin Islands).

**(2) Application.** An applicant must file an application for admission, on a form approved by the court that contains the applicant’s personal statement showing eligibility for membership. The applicant must subscribe to the following oath or affirmation: ‘‘I, llllllllllll, do solemnly swear [or affirm] that I will conduct myself as an attorney and counselor of this court, uprightly and according to law; and that I will support the Constitution of the United States.’’

**(3) Admission Procedures.** On written or oral motion of a member of the court’s bar, the court will act on the application. An applicant may be admitted by oral motion in open court. But, unless the court orders otherwise, an applicant need not appear before the court to be admitted. Upon admission, an applicant must pay the clerk the fee prescribed by local rule or court order.

**(b) Suspension or Disbarment.**

**(1) Standard.** A member of the court’s bar is subject to suspension or disbarment by the court if the member:

**(A)** has been suspended or disbarred from practice in any other court; or

**(B)** is guilty of conduct unbecoming a member of the court’s bar.

**(2) Procedure.** The member must be given an opportunity to show good cause, within the time prescribed by the court, why the member should not be suspended or disbarred.

**(3) Order.** The court must enter an appropriate order after the member responds and a hearing is held, if requested, or after the time prescribed for a response expires, if no response is made.

**(c) Discipline.** A court of appeals may discipline an attorney who practices before it for conduct unbecoming a member of the bar or for failure to comply with any court rule. First, however, the court must afford the attorney reasonable notice, an opportunity to show cause to the contrary, and, if requested, a hearing.

<p class="amendment-history">(As amended Mar. 10, 1986, eff. July 1, 1986; Apr. 24, 1998, eff. Dec. 1, 1998.)</p>
