---
rule: "79"
title: "Records Kept by the Clerk"
title_number: "X"
title_name: "District Courts and Clerks: Conducting Business; Issuing Orders"
summary: ""
keywords: []
related_rules: []
last_amended: "December 1, 2023"
has_deadlines: false
source_pdf_url: "https://www.uscourts.gov/file/78323/download"
source_pdf_page: 116
versions: ["2024"]
---

**(a) Civil Docket.**

**(1) In General.** The clerk must keep a record known as the ‘‘civil docket’’ in the form and manner prescribed by the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts with the approval of the Judicial Conference of the United States. The clerk must enter each civil action in the docket. Actions must be assigned consecutive file numbers, which must be noted in the docket where the first entry of the action is made.

**(2) Items to be Entered.** The following items must be marked with the file number and entered chronologically in the docket:

**(A)** papers filed with the clerk;

**(B)** process issued, and proofs of service or other returns showing execution; and

**(C)** appearances, orders, verdicts, and judgments.

**(3) Contents of Entries; Jury Trial Demanded.** Each entry must briefly show the nature of the paper filed or writ issued, the substance of each proof of service or other return, and the substance and date of entry of each order and judgment. When a jury trial has been properly demanded or ordered, the clerk must enter the word ‘‘jury’’ in the docket.

**(b) Civil Judgments and Orders.** The clerk must keep a copy of every final judgment and appealable order; of every order affecting title to or a lien on real or personal property; and of any other order that the court directs to be kept. The clerk must keep these in the form and manner prescribed by the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts with the approval of the Judicial Conference of the United States.

**(c) Indexes; Calendars.** Under the court’s direction, the clerk must:

**(1)** keep indexes of the docket and of the judgments and orders described in Rule 79(b); and

**(2)** prepare calendars of all actions ready for trial, distinguishing jury trials from nonjury trials.

**(d) Other Records.** The clerk must keep any other records required by the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts with the approval of the Judicial Conference of the United States.

<p class="amendment-history">(As amended Dec. 27, 1946, eff. Mar. 19, 1948; Dec. 29, 1948, eff. Oct. 20, 1949; Jan. 21, 1963, eff. July 1, 1963; Apr. 30, 2007, eff. Dec. 1, 2007.)</p>
